docs/ethereum.mdx, before:

---
description: Differences to Ethereum
---

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Sapphire vs Ethereum

Sapphire is generally compatible with Ethereum, the EVM, and all the user and
developer tooling that you are used to. In addition to confidentiality
features, you get a few extra benefits including the ability to **generate
private entropy**, and **make signatures on-chain**. An example of a dApp that
uses both is an HSM contract that generates an Ethereum wallet and signs
transactions sent to it via transactions.

There are also a few breaking changes compared to Ethereum though, but we think
that you'll quickly grasp them:

  - [Encrypted Contract State](#encrypted-contract-state)
  - [End-to-End Encrypted Transactions and Calls](#end-to-end-encrypted-transactions-and-calls)
  - [`from` Address is Zero for Unsigned Calls](#from-address-is-zero-for-unsigned-calls)
  - [Override `receive` and `fallback` when Funding the Contract](#override-receive-and-fallback-when-funding-the-contract)
  - [Instant Finality](#instant-finality)

Read below to learn more about them. Otherwise, Sapphire is like Emerald, a
fast, cheap Ethereum.

## Encrypted Contract State

The contract state is only visible to the contract that wrote it. With respect
to the contract API, it's as if all state variables are declared as `private`,
but with the further restriction that not even full nodes can read the values.
Public or access-controlled values are provided instead through explicit
getters.

Calling `eth_getStorageAt()` will return zero for all storage slots, **except**
for the following well-known [EIP-1967] proxy-related slots, which remain
readable to support compatibility with standard tooling:

- `0x360894a13ba1a3210667c828492db98dca3e2076cc3735a920a3ca505d382bbc` — Proxy implementation address
- `0xa3f0ad74e5423aebfd80d3ef4346578335a9a72aeaee59ff6cb3582b35133d50` — Beacon proxy implementation
- `0xb53127684a568b3173ae13b9f8a6016e243e63b6e8ee1178d6a717850b5d6103` — Admin slot

[EIP-1967]: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1967

## End-to-End Encrypted Transactions and Calls

Transactions and calls are end-to-end encrypted into the contract. Only the
caller and the contract can see the data sent to/received from the ParaTime.
This ends up defeating some utility of block explorers, however.

The status of the transaction is public and so are the error code, the revert
message and logs (emitted events).

## `from` Address is Zero for Unsigned Calls

The `from` address using of calls is derived from a signature attached to the
call. Unsigned calls have their sender set to the zero address. This allows
contract authors to write getters that release secrets to authenticated callers
(e.g. by checking the `msg.sender` value), but without requiring a transaction
to be posted on-chain.

## Override `receive` and `fallback` when Funding the Contract

In Ethereum, you can fund a contract by sending Ether along the transaction in
two ways:

1. a transaction must call a *payable* function in the contract, or
2. not calling any specific function (i.e. empty *calldata*). In this case,
   the payable `receive()` and/or `fallback()` functions need to be defined in
   the contract. If no such functions exist, the transaction will revert.

The behavior described above is the same in Sapphire when using EVM transactions
to fund a contract.

However, the Oasis Network also uses [Oasis-native transactions] such as a
deposit to a ParaTime account or a transfer. In this case, **you will be able to
fund the contract's account even though the contract may not implement payable
`receive()` or `fallback()`!** Or, if these functions do exist, **they will not
be triggered**. You can send such Oasis-native transactions by using the [Oasis
CLI] for example.

[Oasis-native transactions]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/general/manage-tokens/README.mdx
[Oasis CLI]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/cli/blob/master/docs/README.md

## Instant Finality

The Oasis Network is a proof of stake network where 2/3+ of the validator nodes
need to verify each block in order to consider it final. However, in Ethereum
the signatures of those validator nodes can be submitted minutes after the block
is proposed, which makes the block proposal mechanism independent of the
validation, but adds uncertainty if and when will the proposed block actually be
finalized.

In the Oasis Network, the 2/3+ of signatures need to be provided immediately
after the block is proposed and **the network will halt, until the required
number signatures are provided**. This means that you can rest assured that any
validated block is final. As a consequence, the cross-chain bridges are more
responsive yet safe on the Oasis Network.

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/build/sapphire/develop/concept')} />

Commit message:

docs: add danger tag about unencrypted immutable variables

docs/ethereum.mdx, after:

---
description: Differences to Ethereum
---

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Sapphire vs Ethereum

Sapphire is generally compatible with Ethereum, the EVM, and all the user and
developer tooling that you are used to. In addition to confidentiality
features, you get a few extra benefits including the ability to **generate
private entropy**, and **make signatures on-chain**. An example of a dApp that
uses both is an HSM contract that generates an Ethereum wallet and signs
transactions sent to it via transactions.

There are also a few breaking changes compared to Ethereum though, but we think
that you'll quickly grasp them:

  - [Encrypted Contract State](#encrypted-contract-state)
  - [End-to-End Encrypted Transactions and Calls](#end-to-end-encrypted-transactions-and-calls)
  - [`from` Address is Zero for Unsigned Calls](#from-address-is-zero-for-unsigned-calls)
  - [Override `receive` and `fallback` when Funding the Contract](#override-receive-and-fallback-when-funding-the-contract)
  - [Instant Finality](#instant-finality)

Read below to learn more about them. Otherwise, Sapphire is like Emerald, a
fast, cheap Ethereum.

## Encrypted Contract State

The contract state is only visible to the contract that wrote it. With respect
to the contract API, it's as if all state variables are declared as `private`,
but with the further restriction that not even full nodes can read the values.
Public or access-controlled values are provided instead through explicit
getters.

Calling `eth_getStorageAt()` will return zero for all storage slots, **except**
for the following well-known [EIP-1967] proxy-related slots, which remain
readable to support compatibility with standard tooling:

- `0x360894a13ba1a3210667c828492db98dca3e2076cc3735a920a3ca505d382bbc` — Proxy implementation address
- `0xa3f0ad74e5423aebfd80d3ef4346578335a9a72aeaee59ff6cb3582b35133d50` — Beacon proxy implementation
- `0xb53127684a568b3173ae13b9f8a6016e243e63b6e8ee1178d6a717850b5d6103` — Admin slot

[EIP-1967]: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1967

:::danger
Do not use `immutable` for variables you want to keep private, since
they are stored in the runtime bytecode, which is unencrypted on Sapphire.
:::

## End-to-End Encrypted Transactions and Calls

Transactions and calls are end-to-end encrypted into the contract. Only the
caller and the contract can see the data sent to/received from the ParaTime.
This ends up defeating some utility of block explorers, however.

The status of the transaction is public and so are the error code, the revert
message and logs (emitted events).

## `from` Address is Zero for Unsigned Calls

The `from` address using of calls is derived from a signature attached to the
call. Unsigned calls have their sender set to the zero address. This allows
contract authors to write getters that release secrets to authenticated callers
(e.g. by checking the `msg.sender` value), but without requiring a transaction
to be posted on-chain.

## Override `receive` and `fallback` when Funding the Contract

In Ethereum, you can fund a contract by sending Ether along the transaction in
two ways:

1. a transaction must call a *payable* function in the contract, or
2. not calling any specific function (i.e. empty *calldata*). In this case,
   the payable `receive()` and/or `fallback()` functions need to be defined in
   the contract. If no such functions exist, the transaction will revert.

The behavior described above is the same in Sapphire when using EVM transactions
to fund a contract.

However, the Oasis Network also uses [Oasis-native transactions] such as a
deposit to a ParaTime account or a transfer. In this case, **you will be able to
fund the contract's account even though the contract may not implement payable
`receive()` or `fallback()`!** Or, if these functions do exist, **they will not
be triggered**. You can send such Oasis-native transactions by using the [Oasis
CLI] for example.

[Oasis-native transactions]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/general/manage-tokens/README.mdx
[Oasis CLI]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/cli/blob/master/docs/README.md

## Instant Finality

The Oasis Network is a proof of stake network where 2/3+ of the validator nodes
need to verify each block in order to consider it final. However, in Ethereum
the signatures of those validator nodes can be submitted minutes after the block
is proposed, which makes the block proposal mechanism independent of the
validation, but adds uncertainty if and when will the proposed block actually be
finalized.

In the Oasis Network, the 2/3+ of signatures need to be provided immediately
after the block is proposed and **the network will halt, until the required
number signatures are provided**. This means that you can rest assured that any
validated block is final. As a consequence, the cross-chain bridges are more
responsive yet safe on the Oasis Network.

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/build/sapphire/develop/concept')} />
