docs/quickstart.mdx, before:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Quickstart

<p style={{width: '100%'}}>
<iframe style={{margin: 'auto', display:'block'}} width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LDLz06X_KNY?si=tS1-b1hncG6wo9oL" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

In this tutorial, you will build and deploy a unique dApp that requires
confidentiality to work. By the end of the tutorial, you should feel
comfortable setting up your Eth development environment to target Sapphire,
and know how and when to use confidentiality.

The expected completion time of this tutorial is 15 minutes.

:::info Sunsetting Truffle

Per Consensys [announcement], Oasis will no longer support Truffle as of
2023-10-05 and encourage immediate [migration] to Hardhat. Please see our
repository for the archived Truffle [tutorial] and the deprecated [example].

:::

[announcement]: https://consensys.io/blog/consensys-announces-the-sunset-of-truffle-and-ganache-and-new-hardhat
[migration]: https://trufflesuite.com/docs/truffle/how-to/migrate-to-hardhat/
[tutorial]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/2f4a1a3c217b82687ab9440bf051762ae369ed45/docs/dapp/sapphire/quickstart.mdx
[example]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/3a85e42e6c1cc090c28a521cf7df6353aa8a30c8/examples/truffle


## Create a Sapphire-Native dApp

Porting an existing Eth app is cool, and will provide benefits such as
protection against MEV.
However, starting from scratch with confidentiality in mind can unlock some
really novel dApps and provide a [higher level of security].

One simple-but-useful dApp that takes advantage of confidentiality is a
[dead person's switch] that reveals a secret (let's say the encryption key to a
data trove) if the operator fails to re-up before too long.
Let's make it happen!

[higher level of security]: guide.mdx#writing-secure-dapps
[dead person's switch]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_man%27s_switch

### Init a new Hardhat project

We're going to use Hardhat, but Sapphire should be compatible with your dev
environment of choice. Let us know if things are not as expected!

1. Make & enter a new directory
2. `npx hardhat@~2.19.2 init` then create a TypeScript project.
3. Add [`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat`] as dependency:

  ```shell npm2yarn
  npm install -D @oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat
  ```

4. Install `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox`, TypeScript and other peer
   dependencies required by HardHat.

### Add the Sapphire Testnet to Hardhat

Open up your `hardhat.config.ts` and drop in these lines.

```diff
diff --git a/hardhat.config.ts b/hardhat.config.ts
index 414e974..49c95f9 100644
--- a/hardhat.config.ts
+++ b/hardhat.config.ts
@@ -1,8 +1,19 @@
 import { HardhatUserConfig } from "hardhat/config";
+import '@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat';
 import "@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox";

 const config: HardhatUserConfig = {
   solidity: "0.8.17",
+  networks: {
+    'sapphire-testnet': {
+      // This is Testnet! If you want Mainnet, add a new network config item.
+      url: "https://testnet.sapphire.oasis.io",
+      accounts: process.env.PRIVATE_KEY
+        ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY]
+        : [],
+      chainId: 0x5aff,
+    },
+  },
 };

 export default config;
```

By importing `@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat` at the top of the config file,
**any network config entry corresponding to the Sapphire's chain ID will
automatically be wrapped with Sapphire specifics for encrypting and signing the
transactions**.

### Get some Sapphire Testnet tokens

Now for the fun part. We need to configure the Sapphire network and get some tokens.
Hit up the one and only [Oasis Testnet faucet] and select "Sapphire".
Submit the form and be on your way.

[Oasis Testnet faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.io

### Get the Contract

This is a Sapphire tutorial and you're already a Solidity expert, so let's not
bore you with explaining the gritty details of the contract.
Start by pasting [Vigil.sol] into `contracts/Vigil.sol`.

While you're there, also place [run-vigil.ts] into `scripts/run-vigil.ts`.
We'll need that later.

[Vigil.sol]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/stable/clients/js/1.x/examples/hardhat/contracts/Vigil.sol
[run-vigil.ts]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/stable/clients/js/1.x/examples/hardhat/scripts/run-vigil.ts

#### Vigil.sol, the interesting parts

The key state variables are:

```solidity
    SecretMetadata[] public _metas;
    bytes[] private _secrets;
```

* `_metas` is marked with `public` visibility, so despite the state itself being
  encrypted and not readable directly, Solidity will generate a getter that will
  do the decryption for you.
* `_secrets` is `private` and therefore truly secret; only the contract can
  access the data contained in this mapping.

And the methods we'll care most about are

* `createSecret`, which adds an entry to both `_metas` and `_secrets`.
* `revealSecret`, which acts as an access-controlled getter for the data
  contained with `_secrets`. Due to trusted execution and confidentiality, the
  only way that the secret will get revealed is if execution proceeds all the
  way to the end of the function and does not revert.

The rest of the methods are useful if you actually intended to use the contract,
but they demonstrate that developing for Sapphire is essentially the same as for
Ethereum.
You can even write tests against the Hardhat network and use Hardhat plugins.

### Run the Contract

And to wrap things up, we'll put `Vigil` through its paces.
First, let's see what's actually going on.

After deploying the contract, we can create a secret, check that it's not
readable, wait a bit, and then check that it has become readable.
Pretty cool if you ask me!

Anyway, make it happen by running

```shell
PRIVATE_KEY="0x..." npx hardhat run scripts/run-vigil.ts --network sapphire-testnet
```

And if you see something like the following, you'll know you're well on the road
to deploying confidential dApps on Sapphire.

```
Vigil deployed to: 0x74dC4879B152FDD1DDe834E9ba187b3e14f462f1
Storing a secret in 0x13125d868f5fb3cbc501466df26055ea063a90014b5ccc8dfd5164dc1dd67543
Checking the secret
failed to fetch secret: reverted: not expired
Waiting...
Checking the secret again
The secret ingredient is brussels sprouts
```

## All done!

Congratulations, you made it through the Sapphire tutorial! If you have any
questions, please check out the [guide] and join the discussion on the
[#sapphire-paratime Discord channel][social-media].

Best of luck on your future forays into confidentiality!

:::info Example

Visit the Sapphire ParaTime repository to download the [Hardhat][hardhat-example]
example of this quickstart.

:::

:::info Example

If your project involves building a web frontend, we recommend that you check
out the official [Oasis starter] files.

[Oasis starter]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-starter

:::

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/dapp/sapphire/browser')} />
<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/run-your-node/paratime-client-node')} />
<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />

[social-media]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/get-involved/README.md#social-media-channels
[guide]: guide.mdx
[hardhat-example]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/stable/clients/js/1.x/examples/hardhat
[`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat`]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat

Commit message:

docs: Add demo-starter-go and demo-starter-py

docs/quickstart.mdx, after:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Quickstart

<p style={{width: '100%'}}>
<iframe style={{margin: 'auto', display:'block'}} width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LDLz06X_KNY?si=tS1-b1hncG6wo9oL" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

In this tutorial, you will build and deploy a unique dApp that requires
confidentiality to work. By the end of the tutorial, you should feel
comfortable setting up your Eth development environment to target Sapphire,
and know how and when to use confidentiality.

The expected completion time of this tutorial is 15 minutes.

:::info Sunsetting Truffle

Per Consensys [announcement], Oasis will no longer support Truffle as of
2023-10-05 and encourage immediate [migration] to Hardhat. Please see our
repository for the archived Truffle [tutorial] and the deprecated [example].

:::

[announcement]: https://consensys.io/blog/consensys-announces-the-sunset-of-truffle-and-ganache-and-new-hardhat
[migration]: https://trufflesuite.com/docs/truffle/how-to/migrate-to-hardhat/
[tutorial]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/2f4a1a3c217b82687ab9440bf051762ae369ed45/docs/dapp/sapphire/quickstart.mdx
[example]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/3a85e42e6c1cc090c28a521cf7df6353aa8a30c8/examples/truffle


## Create a Sapphire-Native dApp

Porting an existing Eth app is cool, and will provide benefits such as
protection against MEV.
However, starting from scratch with confidentiality in mind can unlock some
really novel dApps and provide a [higher level of security].

One simple-but-useful dApp that takes advantage of confidentiality is a
[dead person's switch] that reveals a secret (let's say the encryption key to a
data trove) if the operator fails to re-up before too long.
Let's make it happen!

[higher level of security]: guide.mdx#writing-secure-dapps
[dead person's switch]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_man%27s_switch

### Init a new Hardhat project

We're going to use Hardhat, but Sapphire should be compatible with your dev
environment of choice. Let us know if things are not as expected!

1. Make & enter a new directory
2. `npx hardhat@~2.19.2 init` then create a TypeScript project.
3. Add [`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat`] as dependency:

  ```shell npm2yarn
  npm install -D @oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat
  ```

4. Install `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox`, TypeScript and other peer
   dependencies required by HardHat.

### Add the Sapphire Testnet to Hardhat

Open up your `hardhat.config.ts` and drop in these lines.

```diff
diff --git a/hardhat.config.ts b/hardhat.config.ts
index 414e974..49c95f9 100644
--- a/hardhat.config.ts
+++ b/hardhat.config.ts
@@ -1,8 +1,19 @@
 import { HardhatUserConfig } from "hardhat/config";
+import '@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat';
 import "@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox";

 const config: HardhatUserConfig = {
   solidity: "0.8.17",
+  networks: {
+    'sapphire-testnet': {
+      // This is Testnet! If you want Mainnet, add a new network config item.
+      url: "https://testnet.sapphire.oasis.io",
+      accounts: process.env.PRIVATE_KEY
+        ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY]
+        : [],
+      chainId: 0x5aff,
+    },
+  },
 };

 export default config;
```

By importing `@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat` at the top of the config file,
**any network config entry corresponding to the Sapphire's chain ID will
automatically be wrapped with Sapphire specifics for encrypting and signing the
transactions**.

### Get some Sapphire Testnet tokens

Now for the fun part. We need to configure the Sapphire network and get some tokens.
Hit up the one and only [Oasis Testnet faucet] and select "Sapphire".
Submit the form and be on your way.

[Oasis Testnet faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.io

### Get the Contract

This is a Sapphire tutorial and you're already a Solidity expert, so let's not
bore you with explaining the gritty details of the contract.
Start by pasting [Vigil.sol] into `contracts/Vigil.sol`.

While you're there, also place [run-vigil.ts] into `scripts/run-vigil.ts`.
We'll need that later.

[Vigil.sol]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/stable/clients/js/1.x/examples/hardhat/contracts/Vigil.sol
[run-vigil.ts]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/stable/clients/js/1.x/examples/hardhat/scripts/run-vigil.ts

#### Vigil.sol, the interesting parts

The key state variables are:

```solidity
    SecretMetadata[] public _metas;
    bytes[] private _secrets;
```

* `_metas` is marked with `public` visibility, so despite the state itself being
  encrypted and not readable directly, Solidity will generate a getter that will
  do the decryption for you.
* `_secrets` is `private` and therefore truly secret; only the contract can
  access the data contained in this mapping.

And the methods we'll care most about are

* `createSecret`, which adds an entry to both `_metas` and `_secrets`.
* `revealSecret`, which acts as an access-controlled getter for the data
  contained with `_secrets`. Due to trusted execution and confidentiality, the
  only way that the secret will get revealed is if execution proceeds all the
  way to the end of the function and does not revert.

The rest of the methods are useful if you actually intended to use the contract,
but they demonstrate that developing for Sapphire is essentially the same as for
Ethereum.
You can even write tests against the Hardhat network and use Hardhat plugins.

### Run the Contract

And to wrap things up, we'll put `Vigil` through its paces.
First, let's see what's actually going on.

After deploying the contract, we can create a secret, check that it's not
readable, wait a bit, and then check that it has become readable.
Pretty cool if you ask me!

Anyway, make it happen by running

```shell
PRIVATE_KEY="0x..." npx hardhat run scripts/run-vigil.ts --network sapphire-testnet
```

And if you see something like the following, you'll know you're well on the road
to deploying confidential dApps on Sapphire.

```
Vigil deployed to: 0x74dC4879B152FDD1DDe834E9ba187b3e14f462f1
Storing a secret in 0x13125d868f5fb3cbc501466df26055ea063a90014b5ccc8dfd5164dc1dd67543
Checking the secret
failed to fetch secret: reverted: not expired
Waiting...
Checking the secret again
The secret ingredient is brussels sprouts
```

## All done!

Congratulations, you made it through the Sapphire tutorial! If you have any
questions, please check out the [guide] and join the discussion on the
[#sapphire-paratime Discord channel][social-media].

Best of luck on your future forays into confidentiality!

:::info Example: Hardhat

Visit the Sapphire ParaTime repository to download the [Hardhat][hardhat-example]
example of this quickstart.

:::

:::info Example: Starter project

If your project involves building a web frontend, we recommend that you check
out the official [Oasis starter] files.

[Oasis starter]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-starter

:::

:::info Example: Go and Python

Are you building your dApp in langauges other than TypeScript? Check out the
official [Oasis starter project for Go] and the [Oasis starter project for Python].

[Oasis starter project for Go]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-starter-go
[Oasis starter project for Python]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-starter-py

:::

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/dapp/sapphire/browser')} />
<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/run-your-node/paratime-client-node')} />
<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />

[social-media]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/get-involved/README.md#social-media-channels
[guide]: guide.mdx
[hardhat-example]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/stable/clients/js/1.x/examples/hardhat
[`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat`]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat
