docs/README.mdx, before:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Sapphire ParaTime

Sapphire is our official confidential ParaTime for smart contract development
with [Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)] compatibility.

* Confidential state, end-to-end encryption, confidential randomness
* Easy integration with EVM-based dApps, such as DeFi, NFT, Metaverse and
crypto gaming
* Scalability: increased throughput of transactions
* Low-cost: 99%+ lower fees than Ethereum
* 6 second finality (1 block)
* Cross-chain bridges to enable cross-chain interoperability

[Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)]: https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/evm/

### Getting Started

Develop and deploy a dApp on Sapphire:

- follow along with a video walkthrough via [Quickstart][quickstart]
- start with a working dApp [demo][demo]
- explore showcase dApps deployed on Sapphire on the [playground][playground]

[quickstart]: ./quickstart.mdx
[playground]: https://playground.oasis.io/
[demo]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-starter

### Understanding EVM compatibility

Get to know the differences between [Sapphire and Ethereum], and learn about
the high level [Concepts] of developing dApps.

[Sapphire and Ethereum]: ./ethereum.mdx
[Concepts]: ./develop/concept.mdx

### Develop on Sapphire

Take your existing dApp building knowledge and add Sapphire with our developer
[cheatsheet](./images/cheatsheet.pdf) or visit the [Develop on Sapphire] chapter.

[Develop on Sapphire]: ./develop/README.mdx

### Network Information

Check out the RPC endpoints, block explorers and indexers at [Network Information][network].

[network]: ./network.mdx

### Faucet

Visit the [faucet][faucet] to obtain testnet tokens for development purposes.

[faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.io/

## See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/build/rofl/'),
    findSidebarItem('/build/opl/'),
    findSidebarItem('/node/web3'),
    findSidebarItem('/build/tools/other-paratimes/'),
]} />

Commit message:

docs: Replace playground with demos

docs/README.mdx, after:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Sapphire ParaTime

Sapphire is our official confidential ParaTime for smart contract development
with [Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)] compatibility.

* Confidential state, end-to-end encryption, confidential randomness
* Easy integration with EVM-based dApps, such as DeFi, NFT, Metaverse and
crypto gaming
* Scalability: increased throughput of transactions
* Low-cost: 99%+ lower fees than Ethereum
* 6 second finality (1 block)
* Cross-chain bridges to enable cross-chain interoperability

[Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)]: https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/evm/

### Getting Started

Develop and deploy a dApp on Sapphire:

- follow along with a video walkthrough via [Quickstart][quickstart]
- start with a working dApp [starter demo]
- explore showcase dApps deployed on Sapphire on the [list of demos][demos]

[quickstart]: ./quickstart.mdx
[demos]: https://demos.oasis.io/
[starter demo]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-starter

### Understanding EVM compatibility

Get to know the differences between [Sapphire and Ethereum], and learn about
the high level [Concepts] of developing dApps.

[Sapphire and Ethereum]: ./ethereum.mdx
[Concepts]: ./develop/concept.mdx

### Develop on Sapphire

Take your existing dApp building knowledge and add Sapphire with our developer
[cheatsheet](./images/cheatsheet.pdf) or visit the [Develop on Sapphire] chapter.

[Develop on Sapphire]: ./develop/README.mdx

### Network Information

Check out the RPC endpoints, block explorers and indexers at [Network Information][network].

[network]: ./network.mdx

### Faucet

Visit the [faucet][faucet] to obtain testnet tokens for development purposes.

[faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.io/

## See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/build/rofl/'),
    findSidebarItem('/build/opl/'),
    findSidebarItem('/node/web3'),
    findSidebarItem('/build/tools/other-paratimes/'),
]} />
